###  Linux Data Science Virtual Machine with Jupyterhub custom extension

**UPDATE**: The Linux data science VM now has JupyterHub installed by default. This extension will fail to install during deployment and should not be used. This is left here for historical purposes. We also hope that this method, instruction/scripts will help anyone else trying to setup JupyterHub on your own machine. 

This Linux based virtual machine contains popular tools for data science modeling and development activities. The main tools include Microsoft R Open, Anaconda Python distribution, Jupyter notebooks for Python and R, Postgres database, Azure command line tools, libraries to access various Azure services like AzureML, databases, Azure storage and big data services. It also has machine learning tools and algorithms like CNTK (a deep learning toolkit from Microsoft Research), Vowpal Wabbit and xgboost. 

[Jupyterhub](http://jupyterhub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) provides multi user capabilities to the Jupyter notebook service. Clicking on the "Deploy To Azure" button on this page would also add Jupyterhub to the Linux Data Science VM while creating the VM. This is done through a custom extension script ```installjupyterhub.sh``` that executes automatically during the VM creation to install and setup all the neccesary components to run Jupyterhub on the VM. JupyterHub can be useful in training or team environment where a shared VM is used serve multiple users. As a teacher running a classrom or a training program, you create one or more shared Linux data science VM with the Jupyterhub extension and create separate OS user accounts for each student on the VM. The students will login with those credentials and will have their own instance of Jupyter and can follow through lessons on Jupyter notebooks independent of other students.  

### Accessing Multi-user Jupyter through Jupyterhub 
Create local user accounts and password on the VM. Each user can access the multiuser jupyter notebook server by visiting ```https://<VM Full DNS name>:8000/``` on a browser and logging into Jupyter with the OS user login credentials. Once successfully logged in you will see your Jupyter home page with a list of sample notebooks.  Now you can execute existing notebooks or create new notebooks in R, Python 2 or Python 3. 

### About the Linux Data Science VM
The Linux data science VM helps jump start modeling and development for your data science project using software commonly used for analytics and machine learning tasks in a variety of languages including R, Python, SQL, Java and more all pre-installed. Jupyter notebooks offers a browser based experimentation and development environment for both Python and R. Microsoft R Open included in the VM. On the VM, the Azure SDK for Python, R, Java, node.js, Ruby, PHP allows you to build your applications using various Azure services in the cloud including the Cortana Intelligence Suite which is comprised of Azure Machine Learning, Azure data factory, Stream Analytics, SQL Datawarehouse, Hadoop, Data Lake, Spark and more. We also have other powerful machine learning tools and algorithms like CNTK (a deep learning toolkit from Microsoft Research), Vowpal Wabbit, xgboost pre-installed locally. Azure command line tools allow you to manage your Azure resources. Other development tools include run time for Ruby, PHP, node.js, Java, Perl, Eclipse, standard editors like vim, Emacs, gedit). A remote graphical desktop is also provided with VM side pre-configured (needs one time X2Go client side download). You have full access to the virtual machine and the shell including sudo access for the account that is created during the provisioning of the VM. This VM is built on top of Linux Openlogic CentOS-based version 7.2 distribution. 

For more information on provisioning and using the Linux Data Science VM, please check out the [documentation page](https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/machine-learning-data-science-linux-dsvm-intro/).

You can click on the "Deploy to Azure" button to try out the VM (Azure subscription required. Hardware compute [fees](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/partners/microsoft-ads/linux-data-science-vm/) applies. [Free Trial](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/) available for new customers). 

**IMPORTANT NOTE**: Before you proceed to use the **Deploy to Azure** button you must perform a one-time task to accept the terms of the data science virtual machine on your Azure subscription. You can do this by visiting [Configure Programmatic Deployment](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Marketplace/LegalTermsSkuProgrammaticAccessBlade/legalTermsSkuProgrammaticAccessData/%7B%22product%22%3A%7B%22publisherId%22%3A%22microsoft-ads%22%2C%22offerId%22%3A%22linux-data-science-vm%22%2C%22planId%22%3A%22linuxdsvm%22%7D%7D)

